# Eye tracking study

## The effects of caffeine consumption on attention during reading

This study is mainly concerned with the effects of caffeine consumption in attention during reading. A number of studies have demonstrated effects of 60-100 mg caffeine doses on sustained attention, although studies assessing the acute of caffeine on attention while reading texts is unknown. It is hypothesized that drinking coffee before reading improve attention performance by helping readers going along the text faster, meaning doing less stops through the text but increasing the focus on specific areas where readers should stop longer and making shorter saccades. The present study has a within-subjects and control-experiment design with eye movements as dependent variable and coffee consumption as independent variable, with a non-probabilistic sampling. Thirteen participants (seven females and 6 males), mean age of 27 years old, read a text under different conditions: control, placebo and coffee consumption. An eye-tracker device recorded fixation and saccades while reading. The Kruskal-Wallis H test was applied to compare the means of first fixation duration, total fixation duration and percentage of dwell time, getting significant differences at 0.05 between the conditions only with the later one, where the coffee treatment got the highest percentage of dwell time comparing to the placebo condition. This study demonstrated that caffeine with doses of 100 mg approx. improves sustained focus attention while reading by increasing the number of fixation during a dwell in AOIs.

**P.S.:** This code as an individual response, starts from [14] in the data analysis file. Before that point, I collaborated in a teamwork during the study, all acknowledged on my delivered paper.
